# Refactoring Efforts Data Mining Project

## Overview

This project aims to analyze refactoring efforts in various open-source repositories using the Refactoring Miner tool. It is designed to extract unique repositories, clone them, and perform a refactoring analysis to generate insights.

### Project Structure

- **LoggerManager.py**:
  - Sets up and retrieves loggers for different operations (e.g., `RefactoringRunner.py`). Creates the `Logs` directory with a framework to create a dedicated subdirectory for each operation's logs.

- **ProduceUniqueRepos.py**:
  - Extracts unique project names from a CSV file and generates corresponding GitHub repository URLs. The URLs are outputted to a file named `uniqueRepositories.txt` in the `UniqueRepositoriesOutput` directory.

- **RefactoringRunner.py**:
  - Clones a GitHub repository and runs Refactoring Miner to analyze refactoring efforts. The analysis results are saved as JSON files in the `RefactoringMinerOutputs` directory.

- **DeveloperEffort.py**:
  - Creates a csv file containing the developer effort information of the refactoring commits (retrieved from the `RefactoringRunner.py` JSON output) using the SCC tool. The csv output is saved in the `DeveloperEffortsOutput` directory.

- **Runner.py**:
  - Orchestrates the complete workflow. The goal is to not have to run individual .py scripts.

### Directories

- **RefactoringMinerOutputs**:
  - Stores the output JSON files containing the results of the refactoring analysis.

- **UniqueRepositoriesOutput**:
  - Contains the `uniqueRepositories.txt` file, which stores the GitHub repository URLs generated by `ProduceUniqueRepos.py`. This text file is the input for the Runner.py for the rest of the analysis.
### Usage

1. Run Runner.py to start analyzing repositories listed in uniqueRepositories.txt.
python Runner.py <github username> <github access token> <repository name (if you want to run only one repository. If all, leave undefined.)>

2. Check the UniqueRepositoriesOutput for the listing of analysed repositories; the input for the following analysis.
3. Check the RefactoringMinerOutputs directory for the results of the refactoring analysis in JSON format.
4. Check the BugIssueDataOutputs directory for the results of analysis on the bugs based on the information received from Github API.
5. Check the DeveloperEffortOuputs directory for the results of analysis on the developer effort. 
6. Check the PydrillerOutputs directory for the results of pydriller analysis.. TODO!


### Dependencies
Python version > 3.5
Git (for cloning repositories)
Java (for running Refactoring Miner)


### Notes
The project assumes that the repositories are hosted under the Apache GitHub organization.